HTTP structure
HTTP requests and responses have specific structures to help facilitate the exchange 
of information between a client and a server. These structures encapsulate all of the 
important information required to instruct the recipient of the message on how to react.

Requests
Requests are comprised of a few core elements that provide information to a server

HTTP Method: The HTTP method is usually a verb, such as GET and POST, or a noun such as OPTIONS and HEAD.
methods inform the server of the intent of the request and are used in accurately routing and processing requests.
For example: An HTTP request containing a GET method implies that the client wants to fetch a resource.

Path: The path denotes the path of the resource relative to the root URL.

HTTP Protocol Version: The version of the HTTP protocol

Headers: Headers are optional and are used to convey additional information that may be important in processing a request by a server.

Body: The body contains data required to be sent to the server to process a request. The body is not leveraged for all request types. 
It is most common to see a body attached to requests with verbs such as POST, PUT, and PATCH.


Responses
Responses are comprised of similar elements to their counterpart requests
1) HTTP Protocol Version: The version of the HTTP protocol, similar to the request.
2) Status Code: Status code indicates if the request was successful and, if not, why it wasn’t successful.
3) Status Message: Status message provides a short description of the corresponding status code.
4) Headers: These response headers are similar to those provided in a request.
5) Body: The body of a response contains data corresponding to the fetched resource.

Movement of HTTP


TCP
TCP stands for Transmission Control Protocol and allows two hosts to connect and exchange data streams,
guaranteeing the delivery of data packets in the same order as they were sent.

UDP
User Datagram Protocol operates using a connectionless communication model
UDP has no mechanism by which to guarantee delivery or ordering of messages. 
While these are certainly drawbacks for some types of applications, other applications 
that want to prioritize transmission speed and efficiency over security and reliability may leverage UDP

TLS
Transport Layer Security, is a widely adopted security protocol designed to facilitate secure data transmission via encryption.
LS evolved out of the encryption protocol known as SSL (Secure Sockets Layer), which has since been deprecated in favor of TLS. 
While these two protocols are different, the terms are sometimes used interchangeably.
 Using TLS with HTTP will allow you to use HTTPS